

Holistic Annotation

	1. Compliance with task instructions
Please indicate whether the subject was able to follow the instructions while completing the task. If the subject was doing something differently, please describe.
	a: Completes task properly
	2. Noise
Please describe noticeable noise present in the audio or video data. This can be blurry video due to poor internet connection, background noise, sound from TV/radio, or an unsuitable background that impacts visibility of critical body part(s).
	a: Speaking of other parties at end after expressions are finished



Annotation for Clinical Measure


	1. Blink rate
Was there anything abnormal about their eye blink rate? For example, they may not be blinking at all, or blinking too much.
	a: Extremely reduced blink rate; only blinked twice
	2. Masked facies
Please indicate which of the followings are true for the subject: (i) The individual’s face appears blank and emotionless, even when they are trying to express an emotion. (ii) The expression is weak or asymmetrical, and the individual have difficulty holding an expression (e.g., smile) for an extended period.
	a: Some asymmetry in expression
	3. Lips parting with expressions
Indicate the extent of lips parting when the subject is speaking (i.e., always/most of the times/sometimes/very few times/never). Ignore if the subject is speaking.
	a: Always
	4. Lips parting when the mouth is at rest
Indicate the extent of lips parting when the subject is not saying anything (i.e., always/most of the times/sometimes/very few times/never).
	a: Never


Visual Annotation


	1. Overall appearance
Briefly describe the subject’s perceived state-of-mind (whether the subject looks energetic/exhausted/calm/confused).
	a: Subject appears energetic
	2. Camera position
How far is the camera? A good position of the camera would be when the upper half of the subject’s body remains visible, while the lower half is not captured in the frame. If the upper body is only partly visible, the camera is too close. If the lower body is also visible, the camera is too far.
	a: Good position
	3. Background and lighting
Please mention if the background is overloaded (i.e., too many things), or the lighting condition is inappropriate (i.e., too dark or over-lit). Otherwise, mention “normal background”.
	a: Normal background
	4. Presence of other persons
If there were other persons in the background, please describe them shortly (e.g., there is another old male visible in the background).
	a: Edge of woman visible to the left of subject
	5. Apparent difficulty completing the task
If the subject is completing a motor or speech task, please indicate whether the subject demonstrates any difficulty through their facial expressions. For example, furrowed brow, squinting eyes, clenched jaw, tight lips, head hanging low, sighing, wrinkled forehead, etc. For facial expression tasks, please ignore this and follow the task-specific MDS-UPDRS guideline.
	a: N/A
	6. Visibility of significant body parts
Indicate if any body part critical for this task is partially visible (or invisible). For example, was the subject wearing a mask that may have obstructed important visual information? Or did the hand go out of frame while the subject was tapping finger?
	a: No obstructions
	7. Observations of other body parts not being directly assessed
Note abnormal signs observed in other body parts not strictly relevant to the task being completed. For example, one might notice tremor of the jaw or dyskinesias while annotating performance of finger tapping.
	a: None noted
	8. Other
Please mention anything relevant but not included (Leave blank if not applicable)
	a: 